Welcome to Module 3.
In this module we'll focus on data
extraction from relational databases using
structured query language or SQL.
Up till now, we've been focused mostly on
thinking about analytical problems and
understanding where data comes from and
how we capture and store it.
Now we take our first step
in actually working with and
manipulating the data we need
in order to execute an analysis.
As an analyst the ability to extract data
from a database yourself, is one of those
skills that can really enhance
the value you bring to an organization.
It makes you more efficient and
more effective, since you gain a much
deeper level of understanding of the
database itself and the data it contains.
There are two thing about SQL that make it
really great to learn in specialization
like this one.
First, it's incredibly simple.
By the time we finished this module,
you'll learn the basic commands and
operations that drive 80% to 90% of
the SQL coding we see in data analytics.
Secondly, SQL is almost ubiquitous.
While there are many other languages
that companies use either directly or
indirectly to support analytics,
SQL is easily the most common.
And there's a really good chance you'll
find it in just about any organization
working with databases.
And even if you don't end up using SQL,
you can benefit from learning the thought
process that goes into writing it.
It's the same thought process you'll need
to go through regardless of how you get
data out of your databases.
By the end of this module you should
be able to construct simple to
moderate SQL queries using
a set of basic commands.
Namely select, from, where,
group by, having, and order by.
Combine or stack data from multiple
tables using join and union commands.
Enhance queries using relational,
arithmetic, and logical operations, and
build even more complex queries
by utilizing sub queries.
This will be your first chance to get your
hands dirty with some actual data work.
So I hope you're as excited as I am.
And I hope you'll love
writing SQL as much as I do.